1.	Introduction: 
i.	introduction
Covid-19 started in December 2019 in Wuhan China, and since then the number of cases started to increase as well as the number of deaths. As a result, the world started a global pandemic and no one was allowed to leave their houses until the scientists find out a cure for this virus. A year after the virus started scientists were able to make a vaccine that helps people decrease their chances of having the virus and if they were already diagnosed with covid-19 their chances of getting diagnosed again will also decrease and it will make the diagnosed people have less hurting symptoms. So people started getting their first and their second shot in order to go back to their jobs, further more people with moderately to severely compromised immune systems were encouraged to take an additional dose to improve their immunocompromised response to their initial vaccine series. Also some people whose protection against the virus has decreased over time took a second booster after the completed their vaccination series. 
ii.	Project scope and targeted audience:
This project is about the vaccination process in the USA since the beginning of Covid-19 until June 2022. The project was made to study the changes in the vaccination process starting from December 2021 when people started taking their first shot of vaccine and the changes in the number of vaccines given to different age groups (5 years old- 12 years old, 12 years old- 18 years old, 18 years old- 65 years old, older than 65 years old), the distribution of the vaccines in each state in the US among different types of vaccines(Moderna, Janssen, Pfizer, Unk_Manuf) for the different ae groups mentioned above.
The second part of the project focuses on the number of vaccines administrated by the state itself not including the vaccines administrated by other health facilities, taking into consideration the type of the vaccine and the age group that will take this vaccine. Since there were 2 elementary shots for the vaccines the number of people who completed their 2 shots was stated in the dataset as (series complete yes) having in mind the type of vaccine and the age group. Although people were obligated to take the 2 shots and the majority of people had good immune system some of them especially the people in these age groups (12 years old- 18 years old, 18 years old- 50 years old, 50 years old- 65 years old and older than 65 years old) who have moderately to severely compromised immune systems, were asked to take an additional dose which is intended to improve immunocompromised people’s response to their initial vaccine series.at the end people who have completed their vaccine series, and protection against the virus has decreased over time were asked to take a second booster. All of these information was listed in the dataset that we are worked on. 
The aim of the project was to know If the elections had an impact on the number of vaccinations being distributed in each state. We were aiming to find out if the states that voted for Jo Biden tended to have more vaccinations than the states that voted for Donald Trump. Because the presidential elections were at the begging of the global pandemic we chose this topic to be the plot in the story that we will be telling and what caught our attention was the fact that some citizens posted some tweets about this topic and they were wondering about that same issue that we discussed in our project.
The targeted audience will be our professor and our colleagues in this course (Data Exploration & Visualization) and we are willing for their full attention in order to convince them with the story we will be telling.
 
2.	Problem definition:
i.	Problem definition: 
As covid-19 started spreading and the global pandemic started taking place in all countries in the world the US was one of the countries that had a pandemic until scientists find a cure for this virus. After the vaccine was found people started taking their first shots then the second shot and they became fully vaccinated. During the process of providing the states with the enough amount of vaccinations for all citizens the president elections were about to start and all the predicted coming residents started making campaigns to encourage people to vote for them. After a while the results came out and Biden was selected to be the next president of the USA. Everything was going good until some people started noticing that the states that voted for Biden are having better ratio of vaccines to the total number of citizens in each state. People started posting on tweeter that it is unfair to give vaccinations to chosen states and the vaccinations should not be related to politics and that every state should be given the same ratio of vaccinations to the total number of people in every state. (https://twitter.com/HarpWizard/status/1518228413663916033?s=20&t=7aADdAt33j04-wMISWdmbg)
(https://twitter.com/sam_d_1995/status/1412463419601604610?s=20)

Also taking into consideration the audience we wanted to involve in our project we made a survey that involves the same data that was collected in the dataset to see if our small population will give us the same result as the dataset will show.
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSegv0xN8FvpxcMDPqn47QpkbysbLw1x3Fykn09lfIovqclrbw/viewform?usp=sf_link

ii.	EDA objectives:
While going through the Exploratory Data Analysis steps we were able to find out the outliers in the dataset, we were able to understand how the data is distributed among the columns and how that helped us figure out how to visualize the data and come out with useful insights to understand the problem we defined above.

iii.	Deliverables
The result we came out from our exploration of the data is that the elections did really effected the distribution of the vaccinations in the US states and that the states which voted for Biden had noticeably larger amount of vaccinations than the ones voted for Trump.
